1st semester courses: Mathematics 1 (MA201, 4 credits), Physics (PH201, 4 credits), Chemistry (CY201, 4 credits), Physics Laboratory (PH202, 1.5 credits), Chemistry Laboratory (CY202, 1.5 credits), Induction Programme (FY201, 0 credits), English for Communication (HS201, 3 credits), Workshop and Manufacturing Practice (ME201, 1.5 credits).

Mathematics 1 (MA201, 4 credits): MA201 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the MA201 course. MA201 is offered by the Mathematics department. Units covered: Differential Calculus,  Multi Variable Calculus, First Order Ordinary Differential Equation, Higher Order Ordinary Differential Equation and Vector Calculus. MA201 reference books suggested in the curriculum are Veerarajan T, Engineering Mathematics I , McGraw-Hill Education(India) Private Limited, 2014, Veerarajan T, Engineering Mathematics II , McGraw-Hill Education(India) Private Limited, 2015,Venkataraman M.K., Engineering Mathematics, Vol. I&II, The National Publishing Company, Chennai, 2008, Erwin Kreyszig, Advanced Engineering Mathematics (9 th Ed), John Wiley & Sons, New Delhi, 2011, Ramana B.V., Higher Engineering Mathematics, Tata McGraw Hill New Delhi, Eleventh Reprint, 2010, Bali N. and Goyal M., Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Laxmi Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, 9thEdition, 2011.

Physics (PH201, 4 credits): PH201 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the PH201 course. PH201 is offered by the Physics department. Units covered: Electromagnetic Theory, Dielectrics, Quantum Mechanics, Wave Optics, Lasers and Fiber Optics. PH201 reference books suggested in the curriculum are David Griffiths, Introduction to Electrodynamics, 3rd Edition, Eastern Economy Edition., 2011, A.S. Vasudeva, Modern Engineering Physics, S. Chand & Co, 2006,  D. J. Griffiths, “Quantum mechanics”, Pearson Education, 2014, V. Rajendran, Engineering Physics, 2 nd Edition, TMH, New Delhi 2011,  Avadhanulu M. N. , Engineering Physics, S. Chand & Co, 2007, David Halliday, Robert Resnick and Jearl Walker, Fundamentals of Physics, Wiley publications, 2013, H.J. Pain, The physics of vibrations and waves, Wiley publications, 2005, Ajoy Ghatak, Optics, 5th Edition TMH, New Delhi, 2012, Orazio Svelto, 2 nd Edition, plenum Press, Principles of Lasers, 1982, K. Thyagarajan and Ajoy Ghatak, Lasers Fundamentals and Applications, 2nd Edition, Springer 2010.

Chemistry (CY201, 4 credits): CY201 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the CY201 course. CY201 is offered by the Chemistry department. Units covered: Chemical Bonding and Isomerism, Water Chemistry and Reaction Kinetics, Electrode Potential and Corrosion, Introduction to Reaction Mechanism, and Analytical Techniques. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are P.C. Jain and Monika Jain, Engineering Chemistry, Dhanpat Rai Publishing Company, New Delhi, 2016, S.S. Dara and S.S Umare, A Textbook of Engineering Chemistry, S. Chand & Co., Ltd. New Delhi, 2013, Arun Bahl, B.S. Bahl and G.D. Tuli, Essentials of Physical Chemistry, S. Chand and Company Ltd, New Delhi, 2016, Arun Bahl and B.S. Bahl, A TextBook of Organic Chemistry, S. Chand and Company Ltd, New Delhi, 2011, B.R. Puri, L.R. Sharma and K.C Kalia, Principles of Inorganic Chemistry, Milestone Publishers, New Delhi, 2007, G.R. Chatwal and S.K. Anand, Instrumental Methods of Chemical Analysis, Himalaya Publishing House Pvt Ltd, New Delhi, 2005, D.A. Skoog, F.J. Holler and T.A. Nieman, Principles of Instrumental Analysis, Thomson Asia Pvt. Ltd, Singapore, 2004.

Physics Laboratory (PH202, 1.5 credits): PH202 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the PH202 course. PH202 is offered by the Physics department. The first experiment is Radius of curvature of a Lens - Newton’s rings, the second experiment is Thickness of a thin object by air – wedge, the third experiment is Spectrometer – resolving power of a prism, the fourth experiment is Spectrometer – resolving power of a transmission grating, the fifth experiment is Lorent’s Half shade polarimeter – determination of specific rotatory power, the sixth experiment is Determination of wavelength of a laser source using transmission grating, reflection grating (vernier calipers) & particle size determination, the seventh experiment is Determination of numerical aperture & acceptance angle of an optical fiber, the eight experiment is Coefficient of thermal conductivity - radial flow method, the ninth experiment is Coefficient of thermal conductivity – Lee’s disc method, the tenth experiment is Magnetism: I – H curve, the eleventh experiment is Field along the axis of a coil carrying current, the twelfth experiment is Vibration magnetometer – calculation of magnetic moment & pole strength, the thirteenth experiment is Determination of Young’s modulus and rigidity modulus, the fourteenth experiment is Acceleration due to gravity - compound pendulum.  The PH202 reference book suggested in the curriculum is Physics Practical Observation Manual, Department of Physics, Pondicherry Engineering College.

Chemistry Laboratory (CY202, 1.5 credits): CY202 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the CY202 course. CY202 is offered by the Chemistry department. The first experiment is Kinetic study of acid hydrolysis of ethyl acetate, the second experiment is Determination of surface tension and viscosity, the third experiment is Partition of benzoic acid between benzene and water, the fourth experiment is Total hardness of water - Determination by EDTA method, the fifth experiment is Freundlich adsorption isotherm - Adsorption of acetic acid on charcoal, the sixth experiment is saponification value and acid value of an oil, the seventh experiment is Chloride content of water - Determination by Mohr’s method, the eight experiment is Determination of oxalic acid by permanganometry, the ninth experiment is Determination of ferrous by permanganometry, the tenth experiment is Determination of ferrous and ferric by dichrometry, the eleventh experiment is Determination of carbonate and bicarbonate in a mixture, the twelfth experiment is Beer-Lamberts law - Determination of ferrous by colorimetry, the thirteenth experiment is Magnesium content in water - Determination by EDTA method, the fourteenth experiment is Acetic acid content in vinegar, the fifthteenth experiment is Dissolved oxygen content in water - Determination by Winkler’s method, the sixteenth experiment is Determination of available chlorine in bleaching powder, the seventeenth experiment is Conductometric titration, the eighteenth experiment is Potentiometric titration, the nineteenth experiment is Thin layer chromatography, the twentieth experiment is Chemical analysis of salt for cations and anions. CY202 reference books suggested in the curriculum are Lab Manual, Department of Chemistry, Pondicherry Engineering College, Puducherry, 2018, V. Venkateswaran, R. Veeraswamy and A.R. Kulandaivelu, Basic Principles of Practical Chemistry, Sultan Chand & Sons, New Delhi, 2001, J. Mendham, R.C. Denney, J.D. Barnes and M. Thomas, Vogel’s TextBook of Quantitative Chemical Analysis, Pearson Education, New Delhi, 2002.

Induction Programme (FY201, 0 credits): FY201 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the FY201 course. FY201 is offered by the HSS department. Units covered: Proficiency in English, Bridge Course in Mathematics, Universal Human Values, Literary Activities, Creative arts. There are no reference books for the FY201 course. 

English for Communication (HS201, 3 credits): HS201 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the HS201 course. HS201 is offered by the Humanities and Social Sciences department. Units covered: Technical Communication, Comprehension And Analysis, Practice in Writing, Speaking Practice, Grammar and Vocabulary Building. HS201 reference books suggested in the curriculum are Sudarshana, N.P and C. Savitha. English for Technical Communication. Noida: CUP, 2016, Shoba, K N and Lourdes Joavani Rayen. Communicative English. Chennai: CUP, 2017, Rizvi, Ashraf, M. Effective Technical Communication. New Delhi: McGraw, 2017, Daniel Jones. English Pronouncing Dictionary. Cambridge University Press, 2003, Dutt, Kiranmai P and Geetha Rajeevan. Basic Communication Skills. New Delhi: CUP,2013, Sanjay Kumar and Pushpalata. Communication Skills. New Delhi: OUP, 2011, Mohan, Krishna and Meera Banerji. Developing Communication Skills. 2nd edition. Delhi: Macmillan, 2012, Relevant material from newspapers, magazines and journals will be used for integrated practice. 

Workshop and Manufacturing Practice (ME201, 1.5 credits): ME201 is offered in the first semester. There are no prerequisites for the ME201 course. ME201 is offered by the Mechanical Engineering department. Units covered: Carpentry, Sheet Metal, Welding and Fitting, Study of tools and machines, Simple Exercises in Lathe/Drilling machine/Shaper. ME201 reference books suggested in the curriculum are Hajra Choudhury S.K., Hajra Choudhury A.K. and Nirjhar Roy S.K., “Elements of Workshop technology”, Vol. I 2008 and Vol. II 2010, Media promoters and publishers private limited, Mumbai, Kalpakjian S. And Steven S. Schmid, “Manufacturing Engineering and Technology”, 4th edition, Pearson Education India Edition, 2002, H.N.Gupta, R.C.Gupta and Arun Mittal, Manufacturing Processes, New Age Publications, 2001.

2nd semester courses: Mathematics 2 (MA202, 4 credits), Basic Electrical Engineering (EE201, 4 credits), Programming for Problem Solving (CS201, 3 credits), Engineering Graphics and Computer Aided Drawing (ME202, 3 credits), Environmental Science (CE201, 0 credit), Basic Electrical Engineering Laboratory (EE202, 1.5 credits), Programming Laboratory (CS202, 1.5 credits).

Mathematics 2 (MA202, 4 credits): MA201 is offered in the second semester. There are no prerequisites for the MA202 course. MA202 is offered by the Mathematics department.  Units covered:  Matrices, Fourier Series, Fourier Transform, Complex Valued function and Conformal Mapping,   Complex Integration. MA202 reference books suggested in the curriculum are Veerarajan T., Engineering Mathematics II , McGraw-Hill Education(India) Private Limited, 2018, Veerarajan T., Transforms and Partial Differential Equations , McGraw-Hill Education(India) Private Limited, 2016, Venkataraman M.K., Engineering Mathematics, Vol. II and III, The National Publishing Company, 2008, Erwin Kreyszig, Advanced Engineering Mathematics (Ninth Edition), John Wiley & Sons, New Delhi, 2011, Ramana B.V., Higher Engineering Mathematics, Tata McGraw Hill New Delhi, Eleventh Reprint, 2010, Bali N. and Goyal M., Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Laxmi Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, Ninth Edition, 2011.
 
Basic Electrical Engineering (EE201, 4 credits): EE201 is offered in the second semester. There are no prerequisites for the EE201 course. EE201 is offered by the Electrical and Electronics Engineering department.  Units covered:  DC Circuits,   AC Circuits,   Transformers,   Electrical Machines,   Power Plants and LT Switchgear. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are D. P. Kothari and L. J. Nagrath, “Basic Electrical Engineering'', 3rd Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, 2017, D. C. Kulshreshtha, “Basic Electrical Engineering”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2011, Rajendra Prasad, “Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering'', 3rd Edition, PHI Learning Private Limited, 2014, L. S. Bobrow, “Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering'', Oxford University Press, 2011, E. Hughes, “Electrical and Electronics Technology”, Pearson, 2010, V. D. Toro, “Electrical Engineering Fundamentals'', Prentice Hall India, 1989.

Programming for Problem Solving (CS201, 3 credits): CS201 is offered in the second semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS201 course. CS201 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering department.  Units covered:  Algorithmic Problem Solving,   Data, Expressions, Statements,   Arrays and Functions,    Structures, Unions and Pointers,    File Management. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are Balagurusamy. E, “Programming in ANSI C”, Tata McGraw Hill, Seventh Edition, 2017,  Byron Gottfried & Jitender Chhabra, “Programming with C”, Schaum's Outlines Series, 2017, Brian W. Kernighan & Dennis Ritchie. “The C Programming Language”, Pearson Education India; Second Edition, 2015, Ashok N Kamthane, “Computer Programming”, Pearson education, Second Edition, 2012.

Engineering Graphics and Computer Aided Drawing (ME202, 3 credits): ME202 is offered in the second semester. There are no prerequisites for the ME202 course. ME202 is offered by the Mechanical Engineering department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Engineering Graphics and Standards for Engineering Drawing Practice,   Projection of Simple Solids,   Sections of Solids and Development of Surfaces,   Isometric Projections and Orthographic Projections,   Computer Aided Drawing and AutoCAD.The reference books suggested in the curriculum are K.R. Gopalakrishna and Sudhir Gopalakrishna, “Engineering Graphics”, Inzinc Publishers, 2007, K.Venugopal, “Engineering Drawing & Graphics + Auto CAD”, 4th edition, New Age Int’lPublication Ltd., 2004,. BIS, “Engineering Drawing practices for Schools & College”, SP 46: 2003, T. Jeyapoovan, “Engineering Graphics using AUTOCAD”, 7th edition, VIKAS Publishing House (P) Ltd., 2015, N.D. Bhatt, “Engineering Drawing”, 49th edition, Charotar Publishing House, 2014, K.V. Natarajan, “A Text Book of Engineering Drawing”, Dhanalakshmi Publishers, 2006, M. B. Shah and B. C. Rana, “Engineering Drawing”, 2nd edition, Pearson Publications, 2018, Agrawal B. & Agrawal C. M. (2012), “Engineering Graphics”, TMH Publication. 

Environmental Science (CE201, 0 credits): CE201 is offered in the second semester. There are no prerequisites for the CE201 course. CE201 is offered by the Civil Engineering Department. The first activity is Water Resources and Water Pollution, the second activity is Rainwater Harvesting Methodology, the third activity is Domestic Wastewater, the fourth activity is Air Pollution and Air Act, the fifth activity is Solid Waste Management, the sixth activity is Renewable and Non-Renewable sources of energy, the seventh activity is Green Buildings and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, the eighth activity is Tree Plantation, the ninth activity is Collection and Segregation of solid waste in PTU campus, the tenth activity is Guest Lecture. CE201 reference books suggested in the curriculum are:  P.Yugananth, R.Kumaravelan, “Environmental Science and Engineering”, Scitech Publications (India) P.Ltd., Delhi, 2017, John Pichtel, “Waste Management Practices: Municipal, Hazardous and Industrial”, CRC Press,2014. V.S.K.V.Harish, Arunkumar, “Green Building Energy Simulation and Modeling”, Elsevier Science & Technology, 2018, Anubha Kaushik and C.P.Kaushik, “Environmental Science and Engineering”, New Age International (P) Ltd., New Delhi, 2010, S.S.Dara, “A text book of Environmental Chemistry and Pollution Control”, S.Chand and Company Ltd., New Delhi, 2014, IS:15797:2008, “Roof Top Rainwater Harvesting-Guidelines”, BIS, New Delhi, “Energy Conservation Building Code”, 2017, Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Government of India.

Basic Electrical Engineering Laboratory (EE202, 1.5 credits): EE202 is offered in the second semester. There are no prerequisites for the EE202 course. EE202 is offered by the Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department. The first experiment is Study of Basic Safety Precautions and Equipment, the second experiment is Study of fan and tube light connections and earthing, the third experiment is Staircase Wiring, the fourth experiment is Bedroom Wiring, the fifth experiment is Use of Measuring Instruments and Verification of Kirchoff’s Laws, the sixth experiment is Verification of Thevenin and Norton Theorems, the seventh experiment is Verification of Superposition Theorem, the eighth experiment is Impedance calculation and verification of RL, RC & RLC circuits, the ninth experiment is Measurement of power and power factor in single phase AC circuit using three Ammeter method, the tenth experiment is Resonance in Series and Parallel, the eleventh experiment is Measurement of various line and phase quantities for three phase circuits, the twelfth experiment is measurement of three phase power using two wattmeter method, the thirteenth experiment is energy measurement using single phase energy meter, the fourteenth experiment is load test on a single phase transformer, the fifteenth experiment is load test on a single phase induction motor. EE202 reference book suggested in the curriculum is the Laboratory Manual, Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Pondicherry Engineering College.

Programming Laboratory (CS202, 1.5 credits): CS202 is offered in the second semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS202 course. CS202 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Study of Compilation and Execution of simple C programs, the second experiment is Basic C Programs, the third experiment is Programs using Branching Statements, the fourth experiment is Programs using Control Structures, the fifth experiment is Programs using Arrays, the sixth experiment is Programs using Functions, the seventh experiment is Programs using String Operations, the eighth experiment is Programs using Structures, the ninth experiment is Programs using Pointers, the tenth experiment is Programs using File operations. 

3rd semester courses: Biology for Engineers (SH201, 2 credits), Electronic Devices and Digital Systems (EC235, 3 credits), Computer Organization and Architecture (CS203, 4 credits), Data Structures (CS204, 3 credits), Object Oriented Programming Languages (CS205, 3 credits). Electronic Devices and Digital Systems Laboratory (EC236, 1.5 credits), Data Structures Laboratory (CS206, 1.5 credits), Object Oriented Programming Languages Laboratory (CS207, 1.5 credits), Indian Constitution (SH202, 0 credits).

Biology for Engineers (SH201, 2 credits): SH201 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the SH201 course. SH201 is offered by the Chemistry Department.  Units covered:  Classification,   Genetics,   Biomolecules,   Metabolism,   Microbiology. SH201 reference books suggested in the curriculum are “A global approach: Campbell, N. A.; Reece, J. B.; Urry, Lisa; Cain, M,L.; Wasserman, S. A.; Minorsky, P. V.; Jackson, R. B. Pearson Education Ltd.”, “Outlines of Biochemistry, Conn, E.E; Stumpf, P.K; Bruening, G; Doi, R.H. John Wiley and Sons.”, “ Principles of Biochemistry (V Edition), By Nelson, D. L.; and Cox, M. M.W.H. Freeman and Company.”, “Molecular Genetics (Second edition), Stent, G. S.; and Calender, R. W.H. Freeman and company, Distributed by Satish Kumar Jain for CBS Publisher.”, “Microbiology, Prescott, L.M J.P. Harley and C.A. Klein 1995. 2nd edition Wm, C.Brown Publishers.”

Electronic Devices and Digital Systems (EC235, 3 credits): EC235 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the EC235 course. EC235 is offered by the Electronic and Communication Department.  Units covered:  Diode and its Applications,   Transistors – Types and applications,   Boolean Algebra and Combinational Logic,   Sequential Circuits and Memory, Digital Logic Design Using Verilog HDL. EC235 reference books suggested in the curriculum are “ J. Millman, C. Halkias and Satyabrata, Electronic devices and Circuits, Third Edition, McGraw Hill, 2010.”, “ Robert L. Boylestead and Louis Nashelsky, Electron Devices and Circuits Theory, Eleventh Edition, Prentice Hall of India, 2013”, “M. Morris Mano and Michael Ciletti, Digital Design, Sixth Edition, Pearson India Education Services, Pvt. Ltd., 2018.”, “Stephen Brown and Zvonko Vranesic, Fundamentals of Digital Logic with Verilog Design, Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company Ltd., 2006.”

Computer Organization and Architecture (CS203, 4 credits): CS203 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS203 course. CS203 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Basic Structures of Computer,   Basic Processing Unit and Pipelining, Computer Arithmetic, Memory System, and   Input /Output Organization. CS203 reference books suggested in the curriculum are “ Carl Hamacher, Zvonko Vranesic, Safwat Zaky and Naraig Manjikian, Computer Organization and Embedded Systems, Sixth Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, 2012.”, “ John P. Hayes, Computer Architecture and Organization, Third Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, 2013.”, “ William Stallings, Computer Organization and Architecture, Designing for Performance, Tenth Edition, Pearson Education, 2016.”, “John Hennessy and David Patterson, Computer Architecture, A Quantitative Approach, Sixth Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, 2017.”

Data Structures (CS204, 3 credits): CS204 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS204 course. CS204 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Data Structures,   Stack, Queue and Linked lists,   Tree,   Graph,   Hash Table. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Ellis Horowitz and Sartaj Sahni, Fundamentals of Data Structures, Galgotia Book Source, Pvt. Ltd., 2004.”, “D. Samanta, Classic Data Structures, Second Edition, Prentice-Hall of India, Pvt. Ltd., India, 2012.”

Object Oriented Programming Languages (CS205, 3 credits): CS205 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS205 course. CS205 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to C++ Programming Language,   Object Oriented Features of C++,   Java Basics,   GUI and JDBC,   Collections and Java 8. CS205 reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Deitel and Deitel, C++ How to program, Ninth Edition, Prentice Hall, 2014”, “Deitel and Deitel, JAVA How to Program, Eleventh Edition, Prentice Hall, 2017”, “Herbert Schildt, Java SE 6: The Complete Reference, Eleventh Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2018”, “Cay S. Horstmann, Core Java: Volume II-Advanced Features, Eleventh Edition, Prentice Hall, 2019”

Electronic Devices and Digital Systems Laboratory (EC236, 1.5 credits): EC236 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the EC236 course. EC236 is offered by the Electronic and Communication Department. The first experiment is VI characteristics of LED and Zener diodes, the second experiment is Application of Diodes - Clippers, Clampers, AND gate and OR gate., the third experiment is Input and Output Characteristics of Common Emitter transistor configuration and determination of h-parameters., the fourth experiment is Drain characteristics of JFET and determination of Drain resistance, Mutual conductance and Amplification factor., the fifth experiment is Frequency Response of RC-coupled amplifier and determination of input and output impedances., the sixth experiment is Verification of DeMorgan’s theorems using basic logic gates and design and implementation of adders and subtractors., the seventh experiment is Design and implementation of simplified Boolean expressions using Multiplexers and decoders, the eighth experiment is  Verification of the design functionality of Adder, Subtractor and Carry Look-Ahead Adder using Verilog HDL, the ninth experiment is Verification of the design functionality of Parity Generator/Checkers and Magnitude Comparators using Verilog HDL., the tenth experiment is Verification of the design functionality of flip flops, ripple counters and shift registers using Verilog HDL.The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “David A. Bell, Electronic Devices and Circuits, Fifth Edition, Prentice Hall of India, 2008”, “Stephen Brown and Zvonko Vranesic, Fundamentals of Digital Logic with Verilog Design, Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company Ltd., 2006.”

Data Structures Laboratory (CS206, 1.5 credits): CS206 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS206 course. CS206 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Searching Algorithms (With the Number of Key Comparisons) : - Sequential, Binary and Fibonacci Search Algorithms on an Ordered List, the second experiment is Sorting Algorithms (Any Five): Insertion Sort, Selection Sort, Shell Sort, Bubble Sort, Quick Sort, Heap Sort, Merge Sort, and Radix Sort., the third experiment is Implementation of Stack and Its Operations, the fourth experiment is Application of Stack for Converting an Arithmetic Expression into Postfix Form and Evaluation of Postfix Expression., the fifth experiment is Implementation of Queue, Circular Queue, Priority Queue, Dequeue and Their Operations, The sixth experiment is Implementation of Singly Linked List, Doubly Linked List, Circular Linked List, the seventh experiment is Implementation of Binary Tree and Binary Traversal Techniques. The eighth experiment is Implementation of Graph Traversal Techniques, the ninth experiment is Dijkstra’s Algorithm to Obtain the Shortest Paths., the tenth experiment is Implementation of Hash Tables and Its Operations. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Ellis Horowitz and Sartaj Sahni, Fundamentals of Data Structures, Galgotia Book Source, Pvt. Ltd., 2004”, “D. Samanta, Classic Data Structures, Second Edition, Prentice-Hall of India, Pvt. Ltd., India, 2012”

Object Oriented Programming Languages Laboratory (CS207, 1.5 credits): CS207 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS207 course. CS207 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Program to implement classes and objects, the second experiment is Program to implement constructors and destructors with array of objects., the third experiment is Program to demonstrate function overloading., the fourth experiment is Program to implement strings and Exception handling, the fifth experiment is Program to implement different types of inheritances like multiple, Multilevel and hybrid. , the sixth experiment is Programs to implement virtual functions to demonstrate the use of run time polymorphism, the seventh experiment is Program to implement class and function templates., the eighth experiment is Study of execution of simple Java programs, the ninth experiment is Programs to implement classes and objects in java, the tenth experiment is Programs to implement constructors and destructors in Java, the eleventh experiment  is Programs to demonstrate wrapper classes, inheritance and interfaces in Java., the twelfth experiment  is Program to demonstrate exception handling technique., the thirteenth experiment is program to design and implement swing concepts., the fourteenth experiment is Program to design and implement JDBC., the fifteenth experiment is Program to design an event handling event for simulating a simple calculator, the sixteenth experiment is Programs to explore collection classes in java, the seventeenth experiment is . Programs to demonstrate Java 8 features in application. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Deitel and Deitel, C++ How to program, Ninth Edition, Prentice Hall, 2014.”, “Deitel and Deitel, JAVA How to Program, Eleventh Edition, Prentice Hall, 2017”, “Cay S. Horstmann, Core Java: Volume II-Advanced Features, Eleventh Edition, Prentice Hall, 2019.”

Indian Constitution (SH202, 0 credits): SH202 is offered in the third semester. There are no prerequisites for the SH202 course. SH202 is offered by the Humanities and Social Sciences Department. Units covered:  Introduction of Indian Constitution,   State, Rights and Duties,   Union Government,   State Governments,   Union- State Relations, Constitutional Bodies. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Austin, Granville. The Indian Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation. Oxford University Press, 1999”, “Basu, Durga Das, et al. Introduction to the Constitution of India. 20th ed., Thoroughly Rev, Lexis Nexis Butterworths Wadhwa Nagpur, 2008”, “Choudhry, Sujit, et al., editors. The Oxford Handbook of the Indian Constitution. Oxford University Press, 2016.”, “Bakshi, Parvinrai Mulwantrai, and Subhash C. Kashyap, The Constitution of India (Universal Law Publishing), 2016.”, “Bhargava, Rajeev, Politics and Ethics of the Indian Constitution, 2009”, “Rajeev Bhargava, The Promise of India’s Secular Democracy, 2010. ”, “Chakrabarty, Bidyut, India’s Constitutional Identity: Ideological Beliefs and Preferences (Routledge), 2019.”, “Jayal, Niraja Gopal, and Pratap Bhanu Mehta, The Oxford Companion to Politics in India, Oxford University Press, 2010. ”, “Kashyap, Subhash C., Our Constitution: An Introduction to India’s Constitution and Constitutional Law (NBT India), 1994.”, “Kashyap, Subhash C. Our Parliament: An Introduction to the Parliament of India. Revised edition, National Book Trust, India, 2011.”, “ Subhash C. Kashyap Our Constitution Paperback – (NBT India), 2012. ”, “Laxmikanth, M., INDIANPOLITY, McGraw-Hill Education Constitution of India, Ministry of Law and Justice, Govt. of India.”

4th semester courses: Mathematics for Computing (MA206, 4 credits), Operating Systems(CS208, 3 credits), Design and Analysis of Algorithms(CS209, 3 credits) , Database Management Systems(CS210, 3 credits),  Software Engineering(CS211, 4 credits), Operating System Laboratory(CS212,1.5 credits),  Design and Analysis of Algorithms Laboratory(CS213,1.5 credits) ,Database Management Systems Laboratory(CS214, 1.5 credits)

Mathematics for Computing (MA206, 4 credits): MA206 is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the MA206 course. MA206 is offered by the Mathematics Department.  Units covered:  Mathematical Logic,   Normal Forms and Inference Theory,   Predicate Calculus,   Discrete and Continuous Distributions,   Stochastic Processes and Poisson Queuing Models. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “ J.P.Tremblay and R.Manohar, Discrete Mathematical Structures with Applications to Computer science, Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing company pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, 2002.”, “Kishore S. Trivedi, Probability and Statistics with Reliability, Queuing and Computer Science Applications, John Wiley & Sons Inc. Second Edition, 2012.”, “D.Gross and C.M.Harris, Fundamentals of Queuing Theory, Wiley Students Edition, Third Edition, 2012. ”, “J.Medhi, Stochastic models in Queuing Theory, Academic Press, Second Edition, 2012”, “J. Medhi, Stochastic Processes, New Age International (P) Ltd., Second Edition, 2012. ”

Operating Systems(CS208, 3 credits): CS208 is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS208 course. CS208 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Operating System ,   Process Communication and Scheduling,   Process Synchronization and Deadlocks,   Memory Management,   Storage and I/O Management. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Abraham Silberschatz, Peter B. Galvin and Greg Gagne, Operating Systems Concepts, Ninth Edition, Wiley, 2012.”, “William Stallings, Operating Systems: Internals and Design Principles, Ninth Edition, Prentice-Hall, 2018. ”, “Andrew Tanenbaum, Modern Operating Systems, Third Edition, Prentice Hall, 2009”

Design and Analysis of Algorithms(CS209, 3 credits): CS209 is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS209 course. CS209 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Searching, Sorting and Analysis,   Divide and Conquer, Greedy,   Dynamic Programming ,   Backtracking,   Branch and Bound. CS209 reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Ellis Horowitz, Sartaj Sahni and Sanguthevar Rajasekaran, Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms, Second Edition, Galgotia Publications, Pvt. Ltd., 2008.”, “Gilles Brassard and Paul Bratley, Fundamentals of Algorithmics, Theory and Practice PHI, 2010.”, “Thomas H. Corman, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald and L. Rivest, Introduction to Algorithms, Second Edition, Prentice-Hall of India, 2003.”

Database Management Systems(CS210, 3 credits): CS210 is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS210 course. CS210 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Database Concepts and Data Model,   Database Design and Querying,   Query Processing and Fast Retrieval,   Concurrency Control and DB Architecture,   Data Mining and Information Retrieval. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Abraham Silberschatz, Henry F. Korth and S.Sudarshan, Database System Concepts, Sixth Edition, McGraw-Hill International, Inc., 2011.”, “Elmasri and Navathe, Fundamentals of Database Systems, Seventh Edition, Addison-Wesley, 2012.”, “Fred R McFadden, Jeffery A. Hoffer and Mary B. Prescott, Modern Database Management, Addison Wesley, 2000. ”

Software Engineering(CS211, 4 credits): CS211 is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS211 course.  CS211 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Software Engineering,   Software Project Management and Requirements Analysis,   Software Design,   Coding and Software Testing,   Software Maintenance and Quality Management. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Rajib Mall, Fundamentals of Software Engineering, Fifth Edition, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd., 2018.”, “Roger S. Pressman, Software Engineering: A Practitioner's Approach, Seventh Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2014. ”, “Ian Sommerville, Software Engineering, Tenth Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2016”

Operating System Laboratory(CS212,1.5 credits): CS212 is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS212 course. CS212 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Study of basic Linux Commands, the second experiment is Implementation of Shell Programming, the third experiment is Implementation of System Calls, the fourth experiment is Implementation of Inter-Process Communication mechanism, the fifth experiment is Implementation of various CPU Scheduling Algorithms, the sixth experiment is Implementation of Process Synchronization using semaphores, the seventh experiment is Implementation of various Page Replacement Strategies, the eighth experiment is Implementation of Disk Scheduling Techniques. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Abraham Silberschatz, Peter B. Galvin and Greg Gagne, Operating Systems Concepts, Ninth Edition, Wiley, 2012”, “William Stallings, Operating Systems: Internals and Design Principles, Ninth Edition, Prentice-Hall, 2018.”, “Andrew Tanenbaum, Modern Operating Systems, Third Edition, Prentice Hall, 2009”.

Design and Analysis of Algorithms Laboratory(CS213,1.5 credits): CS213 is offered inthe fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS213 course. CS213 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Searching: Implementation of Sequential Search, Binary Search and Fibonacci Search, the second experiment is Sorting: Implementation of Bubble Sort, Selection Sort, Insertion Sort and Heap Sort., the third experiment is Divide-and-Conquer: Implementation of Binary Search, Merge Sort, Quick Sort and Max-min Problem., the fourth experiment is Greedy: Implementation of Knapsack, Minimum Cost Spanning Tree, Single-Source-Shortest Path and Scheduling., the fifth experiment is Dynamic Programming: Implementation of Multi-Stage Graphs, All-Pairs Shortest Path, Travelling Salesman, Basic Search Traversals Of Tree and Graph, the sixth experiment is Backtracking: Implementation of N-Queen, Sum-of-Subsets, Graph-Coloring. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Ellis Horowitz, Sartaj Sahni and Sanguthevar Rajasekaran, Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms, Galgotia Publications, Pvt. Ltd., 2008”

Database Management Systems Laboratory(CS214, 1.5 credits): CS214 is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS214 course. CS214 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Study of Database Concepts: Relational model – table – operations on tables – index – table space – clusters – synonym – view – schema – data dictionary – privilege – role – transactions., the second experiment is Study of SQL: Primitive Data Types – User Defined data Types – create, alter, drop, select, insert, delete, update, commit, rollback, save point, grant, revoke - Built-in Functions – Integrity Constraint – Authorization – Transactions., the third experiment is Study of Query Types: Queries involving Set Operators: Union, Intersection, Difference, Cartesian product, and Divide Operations – Sub Queries – Join Queries – Nested Queries – Correlated, Queries – Recursive Queries, the fourth experiment is Study of Procedural Query Language: Blocks, Exception Handling, Functions, Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, Packages., the fifth experiment is Design and develop the following application: a. Library Information System b. Hospital Management System c. Students’ Information System d. Employee Information System. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Abraham Silberschatz, Henry F. Korth and S.Sudarshan, Database System Concepts, Sixth Edition, McGraw-Hill International Inc., 2011”

5th semester courses: Industrial Economics and Management (HS202, 3 credits), Platform Technologies (CS215, 3 credits), Computer Networks (CS216, 3 credits), Automata Theory and Compiler Design (CS217, 4 credits) , Platform Technologies Laboratory (CS218, 1.5 credits), Computer Networks Laboratory (CS219, 1.5 credits), Essence of Indian Traditional Knowledge (SH203, 0 credits).

Industrial Economics and Management (HS202, 3 credits): HS202 is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the HS202 course. HS202 is offered by the Humanities & Social Sciences department. Units covered: Micro and Macro Economics and its Applications,   Management Techniques,Industrial Finance,   Production Management,   Marketing Management. HS202 reference books suggested in curriculum are Varshney Maheswari, Managerial Economics, S Chand & Co, New Delhi, 2011, Dutt & Sundaram, Indian Economy, S Chand & Co, New Delhi, 2015 , Pandey I.M, Elements of Financial Management, Wiley Eastern Ltd, New Delhi, 2015, H.L. Ahuja, Macro Economics for Business and Management, S Chand & Company Ltd, 2011,  O.P Khanna, Industrial Engineering and Management, Dhanpat Rai and Sons, 2009, Philip B Kotler, Marketing Management, Mac Millan, New York 2011.
 
Platform Technologies (CS215, 3 credits): CS215 is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS215 course. CS215 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering department. Units covered: Introduction Introducing C#, Understanding .NET, Application Development on “.Net”,   Web Based Application Development on “.Net”,   CLR And “.Net Framework”. CS215 reference books suggested in curriculum are Herbert Schildt, The Complete Reference: C# 4.0, Tata McGraw Hill, 2012, Christian Nagel, Bill Evjen, Jay Glynn, Karli Watson and Morgan Skinner, Professional C# 2012 and .NET 4.5, John Wiley & Sons Inc., 2012, Ian Griffiths, Matthew Adams and Jesse Liberty, Programming C# 4.0, Sixth Edition, O’Reilly, 2010, Paul Deitel and Harvey Deitel, C# 6 for Programmers, Sixth Edition, Deitel® Developer Series, 2016.

Computer Networks (CS216, 3 credits): CS216 is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS216 course. It is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering department. Units covered: Physical Layer,   Data Link Layer, Network Layer, Transport Layer,   Application Layer. CS216 reference books suggested in the curriculum are Tanenbaum, A.S. and David J. Wetherall, Computer Networks, Fifth Edition, Prentice Hall, 2011, Larry L. Peterson and Bruce S. Davie, Computer Networks- A System Approach, Fifth Edition, Elsevier, 2012, Stallings, Data and Computer Communications, Tenth Edition., Prentice Hall Int. Ed., 2013, James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross, Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet, Third Edition, Pearson Education, 2006.

Automata Theory and Compiler Design (CS217, 4 credits): CS217 is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS217 course. CS217 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering department. Units covered: Finite Automata and Regular Expressions,   Grammars, PDA and Turing Machines,   Phases of Compiler and Lexical Analyzer,   Syntax Analysis and Syntax-Directed Translation,   Intermediate Code Generation and Code Generation. CS217 reference books suggested in the curriculum are John E. Hopcroft and Jeffrey D. Ullman, Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages and Computation, Third Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2007, Alfred V. Aho, Monica S. Lam, Ravi Sethi and Jeffrey D. Ullman, Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools, Second Edition, Pearson Education, Inc, 2006, Michael Sipser, Introduction to the Theory of Computations, Thomson Learning, 1997, John C. Martin, Introduction to Languages and the Theory of Computation, TMH, 2003.

Platform Technologies Laboratory (CS218, 1.5 credits): CS218 is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS218 course. CS218 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Programs using basic concepts like arrays, LINQ, strings, enumeration, etc, the second experiment is Programs using the following concepts:  Class, constructers, properties, indexers, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Delegates, Exception handling, Multi-threading, the third experiment is Develop window based applications to understand and demonstrate:  Windows application for any automation process, Menu, SDI and MDI concepts with essential components, Database connectivity with ADO, Data validation, the fourth experiment is Developing web based applications to understand: Web Application using ASP.Net Creation of Web services, Accessing data from XML resources, the fifth experiment is Programs using to learn advanced concepts:  Assemblies. Reflection, Remoting. The reference books suggested in curriculum are Herbert Schildt, The Complete Reference: C# 4.0, Tata McGraw Hill, 2012, Christian Nagel et al. Professional C# 2012 with .NET 4.5, Wiley India, 2012, Ian Griffiths, Matthew Adams and Jesse Liberty, Programming C# 4.0, Sixth Edition, O’Reilly, 2010, Paul Deitel and Harvey Deitel, C# 6 for Programmers, Sixth Edition, Deitel® Developer Series, 2016.

Computer Networks Laboratory (CS219, 1.5 credits): CS219 is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS219 course. CS219 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Implementation of a Program For CRC and Hamming Code for Error Handling, the second experiment is Writing a Code for Simulating Sliding Window Protocols, the third experiment is Implementation (Using NS2/Glomosim/ Your Simulation Program) and Performance Evaluation of the Following Routing Protocols:  Shortest Path Routing, Flooding, Link State, Hierarchical, the fourth experiment is Implementation of a socket program for Echo/Ping/Talk commands, the fifth experiment is Creation of a Socket between two Computers and Enable File Transfer between them.  TCP ,UDP, the sixth experiment is Implementation of a Program for Remote Command Execution (Two M/Cs May Be Used),the seventh experiment is Create a Socket For HTTP for Web Page Upload & Download, the eighth experiment is Write a program to implement RCP. (Remote Capture Screen), the ninth experiment is Implementation of Public Key Encryption, the tenth experiment is Implementation of TELNET. (Remote Login), the eleventh experiment is Implementation of an Authentication algorithm to access a File, the Twelfth experiment is Simulation of DNS server. The reference books suggested in curriculum are Tanenbaum, A.S. and David J. Wetherall, Computer Networks, Fifth Edition, Prentice Hall, 2011, Larry L. Peterson and Bruce S. Davie, Computer Networks- A System Approach, Fifth Edition, Elsevier, 2012, Stallings, Data and Computer Communications, Tenth Edition, Prentice Hall Int. Ed., 2013, James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross, Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet, Third Edition, Pearson Education, 2006

Essence of Indian Traditional Knowledge (SH203, 0 credits): SH203 is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the SH203 course. SH203 is offered by the Humanities & Social Sciences Department.  Units covered:  Basic structure of Indian knowledge system, Modern science and Indian knowledge system, Yoga and holistic health care,   Philosophical tradition, Indian linguistic tradition, Indian artistic tradition. SH203 reference books suggested in the curriculum are N. Sivaramakrishnan (Ed.) Cultural Heritage of India – Course Materal, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Mumbai, Fifth Edition, 2014, Swami Jitatmanand, Modern Physics and Vedanta, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan,  Fritz of Capra, Tao of Physics, Yoga Sutra of Patanjali, Ramakrishna Mission, Kolkatta, R.N. Jha, Science of Consciousness Psychotherapy and yoga Practices, Vidyanidhi Prakashan, Delhi 2016, S.C Chaterjee and D.M Datta, An Introduction to Indian Philosophy, University of Calcutta, 1984,  Krishna Chaitanya, Arts of India, Abhinav Publications, 1987.

6th semester courses: Microprocessors and Microcontrollers (CS220, 3 credits), Web Technologies (CS221, 3 credits), Information Security (CS222, 4 credits), Microprocessors and Microcontrollers Laboratory (CS223, 1.5 credits), Web Technologies Laboratory (CS224, 1.5 credits).

Microprocessors and Microcontrollers (CS220, 3 credits): CS220 is offered in the sixth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS220 course. CS220 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  8-bit Microprocessor Architecture and Programming,   16-bit Microprocessor Architecture and Programming,   Memory, Peripheral Interfacing and Applications,   Introduction to Microcontroller,       Programming and Applications of Microcontrollers. The reference books suggested in curriculum are Ramesh S. Gaonkar, Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the 8085, Sixth Edition, Penram International Publications, 2013, Krishna Kant, Microprocessors and Microcontrollers: Architecture, Programming and System Design 8085, 8086, 8051, 8096, Second Edition, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd., 2013, A.K. Ray, K.M.Burchandi and A.K.Ray, Advanced Microprocessor and Peripherals, Third Edition, McGraw Hill International Edition, 2017, Andrew N. Sloss Dominic Symes and Chris Wright, ARM System Developer’s Guide Designing and Optimizing System Software, Morgan Kaughmann/Elsevier Publishers, 2006.

Web Technologies (CS221, 3 credits): CS221 is offered in the sixth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS221 course. CS221 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Internet Protocols, HTML 5.0 and DHTML,   Client-Side Programming,   Server Side Programming,   PHP and XML,   Introduction To Ajax and Web Services. The reference books suggested in curriculum are Deitel and Goldberg, Internet and World Wide Web – How to Program, Fifth Edition, Pearson Education Asia, 2011, Uttam K.Roy, Web Technologies, First Edition, Oxford University Press, 2012, Eric Newcomer, Understanding Web Services: XML, WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI, Addison-Wesley, Platinum Edition, 2002.

Information Security (CS222, 4 credits): CS222 is offered in the sixth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS222 course. CS222 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Security and Needs,   Legal Laws, Security Planning and Risk,   Security Technologies and Cryptography, ,   Physical Security,   Security Personnel and Maintenance. The reference books suggested in curriculum are Michael E Whitman and Herbert J Mattord, Principles of Information Security, Sixth Edition, Vikas Publishing House, New Delhi, 2018, Micki Krause and Harold F. Tipton, Handbook of Information Security Management A Handbook, Sixth Edition, Auerbach Publication, Volume 2, 2018, Matt Bishop, Computer Security Art and Science, Addison-Wesley Professional Pearson/PHI, 2002.

Microprocessors and Microcontrollers Laboratory (CS223, 1.5 credits): CS223 is offered in the sixth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS223 course. CS223 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Experiments using 8085 kit - Study of 8085 Microprocessor, Implementation of 8 bit and 16 bit Arithmetic operations, Implementation of Code Conversions, Implementation of Array Operations, Simulation of Digital Clock, Simulation of Rolling Display, the second experiment is Experiments Using 8086 Microprocessor with MASM - Arithmetic operations: Multi-byte Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division, Searching and Sorting, String Operations, Traffic light control, Stepper motor control, Serial and Parallel Interface, the third experiment is Experiments Using ARM Controller - implementation of Simple Programs in LPC2141, Implementation of Interrupts in LPC2148, Implementation of UART features of ARM LPC2148, Interfacing SD card and Graphical LCD using LPC2148., Implementation of SPI and I2C communication using LPC2148, Implementation of USB communication using LPC2148 . The reference books suggested in curriculum are Ramesh S. Gaonkar, Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the 8085, Sixth Edition, Penram International Publications, 2013, Krishna Kant, Microprocessors and Microcontrollers: Architecture, Programming and System Design 8085, 8086, 8051, 8096, Second Edition, PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd., 2013, A.K. Ray, K.M.Burchandi and A.K.Ray, Advanced Microprocessor and Peripherals, Third Edition, McGraw Hill International Edition, 2017, Andrew N. Sloss Dominic Symes and Chris Wright, ARM System Developer’s Guide Designing and Optimizing System Software, Morgan Kaughmann/Elsevier Publishers, 2006.

Web Technologies Laboratory (CS224, 1.5 credits): CS224 is offered in the sixth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS224 course. CS224 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Study of basic HTML tags, the second experiment is Creation of website using HTML, the third experiment is Implementation of Client  Side Scripting in JavaScript, the fourth experiment is Implementation of Server Side Scripting in Java Servlets and JSP a. Establishing Data Base Access Programming b. Session and Application objects c. c. Database Connectivity, the fifth experiment is Designing a Website using PHP, the sixth experiment is Developing Web Applications using XML, the seventh experiment is Developing Web Services, the eighth experiment is Designing a website in Ajax, the nineth experiment is Developing E-commerce application using internet programming (Mini Project). The reference books suggested in curriculum are Deitel and Goldberg, Internet and World Wide Web – How to Program, Fifth Edition, Pearson Education Asia, 2011, Uttam K. Roy, Web Technologies, First Edition, Oxford University Press, 2012, Eric Newcomer, Understanding Web Services: XML, WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI, Addison-Wesley, Platinum Edition, 2002.

7th semester courses: Artificial Intelligence (CS225, 3 credits), Parallel and Distributed Systems (CS226, 4 credits), Data Science Essentials (CS227, 4 credits), Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CS228, 1.5 credits), Seminar (CS229, 1 credit), Professional Ethics (CS230, 0 credits)
Artificial Intelligence (CS225, 3 credits): CS225 is offered in the seventh semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS225 course. CS225 is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Search Techniques,   Knowledge Representation and Inference Techniques,   Uncertain Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,   Planning and Learning,   Applications of Artificial Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence reference books suggested in the curriculum are: Deepak Khemani, “A First Course in Artificial Intelligence”, First Edition, McGraw Hill Education (India) Private Limited, 2013, Parag Kulkarni and Prachi Joshi, “Artificial Intelligence: Building Intelligent Systems”, PHI Learning Private Limited, 2015, Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig, “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach”, Third Edition, Pearson Education Asia, 2015, Vinod Chandra S.S. and Anand Hareendran, “Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning”, First Edition, PHI Learning Private Limited, 2014.


Parallel and Distributed Systems (CS226, 4 credits): CS226 is offered in the seventh semester. There are no prerequisites for the Parallel and Distributed Systems course. Parallel and Distributed Systems is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Parallel Computing Systems,   Parallel Computing and Communication Methods,   Introduction to Distributed Systems,   Communication and Naming,   Synchronisation, Consistency and Replication. Parallel and Distributed Systems reference books suggested in the curriculum are: V. Rajaraman and C. Siva Ram Murthy, “Parallel Computers – Architecture and Programming”, Prentice-Hall of India, 2003, Ananth Grama, Anshul Gupta, George Karypis and Vipin Kumar, “Introduction to Parallel Computing”, Second Edition, Pearson Education, 2004, Andrew S. Tanenbaum and Maarten Van Steen, “Distributed Systems – Principles and Paradigms”, Second Edition , Prentice- Hall of India, Pvt. Ltd, 2008, Pradeep K Sinha, “Distributed Operating Systems”, Prentice-Hall of India, New Delhi, 2001. 

Data Science Essentials (CS227, 4 credits):  Data Science Essentials is offered in the seventh semester. There are no prerequisites for the Data Science Essentials course. Data Science Essentials is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Introduction to Data Science,   Introduction to Programming Tools for Data Science,   Supervised Learning,   Unsupervised Learning, and   Big Data Analytics. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are: Peng, R. D., & Matsui. E, “The Art of Data Science- A Guide for Anyone Who Works with Data'', Skybrude Consulting, 2015, Martin Czygan, Phuong Vo.T.H, “Getting Started with Python Data Analysis”, Packt Publishing, 2015, David Dietrich, Barry Heller & Beibei Yang, “Data Science and Big Data Analytics: Discovering, Analyzing, Visualizing and Presenting Data”, John Wiley & Sons, 2015, Davy Cielen, Arno Meysman, Mohamed Ali, “Introducing Data Science: Big Data, Machine Learning, and More, Using Python Tools”, Manning Publications, 2016, Joel Grus, “Data science from scratch: first principles with python”, O'Reilly Media, Inc., 2015, Steven S. Skiena, “The Data Science Design Manual”, First Edition, Springer, 2017

Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CS228, 1.5 credits): Artificial Intelligence Laboratory is offered in the seventh semester. There are no prerequisites for the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory course. AI Laboratory is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The first experiment is Study about the Fundamentals of Prolog Programming, the second experiment is Execute Simple Programs using Prolog, the third experiment is Water Jug Problem using DFS, BFS and Blind Search Algorithms, the fourth experiment is Mini-Max Adversarial Search Algorithm, the fifth experiment is Missionaries and Cannibals Problem, the sixth experiment is Best First Search and A* Heuristic Algorithms, the seventh experiment is Propositional Logic, the eighth experiment is Predicate Logic, the ninth experiment is Applying Unification on a Set of Facts, the tenth experiment is Forward Chaining and Backward Chaining, the eleventh experiment is Developing an Expert System, the twelfth experiment is Mini Project based on Industry Topics and Real-Time Problems. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are: Max Bramer, “Logic Programming with Prolog”, Springer, 2005.

Seminar (CS229, 1 credit): CS229 is offered in the seventh semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS.. course. It is offered by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. The student will present a seminar on the following: select on  a topic in an emerging area in their specialization of Computer Science and Engineering. Make a presentation for a duration of 20-25 minutes. Submit a brief report running to 15 or 20 pages for the purpose of evaluation. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are: Books related to the seminar title, papers published in reputed journals and conferences related to the seminar. 

8th semester courses: Comprehensive Test (CS231, 1 credit), Internship (CS232, 2 credits), Project Work (CS233, 8 credits).

Comprehensive Test (CS231, 1 credit): CS231 is offered in the eighth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS231 course. It is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The students are provided with practice sessions to update and refresh their knowledge in all courses throughout the programme. Two comprehensive tests, preferably with objective type questions from all core courses will be conducted of GATE examination standard. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are: all books related to the core courses, and the papers published in reputed journals and conferences related to the core courses. 
Project Work (CS233 , 8 credits): CS233 is offered in the eighth semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS233 course. It is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. The student is given an option to carry out project work either in the college or in an industry / research laboratory / higher learning institution. The student is required to do the following: perform literature survey, problem formulation, forming a methodology of arriving at the solution of the problem, documentation of each step and present in reviews, implement the project using a programming language or software tool, test the project and compare it with benchmark standards, prepare a project report. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are: books related to the project title and papers published in the reputed journals and conferences related to the project.

Honors Courses: Human Computer Interaction (CSH01, 4 Credits), Advanced Data Structure and Algorithms (CSH02, 4 Credits) ,  Advanced Software Design (CSH03, 4 Credits), Advanced Security Concepts (CSH04, 4 Credits), Deep Learning (CSH05, 4 Credits)

Human Computer Interaction (CSH01, 4 Credits) : Human Computer Interaction is offered in the third semester. Human Computer Interaction is an Honors course, so only Honors students can enroll for this course. There are no prerequisites for the Human Computer Interaction course. Human Computer Interaction is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. Units covered: HCI – Basic Concepts,   Interactive System Design Practices,   Models for Interface Design Process,   User Experience (UX) Evaluation,   Web Interfaces and Case Studies. The reference books suggested in curriculum are Alan Dix, Janet Finlay, Gregory Abowd and Russell Beale, Human Computer Interaction, Third Edition, Pearson Education, 2004; Bill Scott and Theresa Neil, Designing Web Interfaces, First Edition, O`Reilly, 2009, Rex Hartson and Pardha S Morgan Kaufmann, The UX Book: Process and Guidelines for Ensuring a Quality User Experience, Kindle Edition, 2012, Ben Shneiderman, Catherine Plaisant Maxine Cohen, Steven Jacobs, Niklas Elmqvist and Nicholas Diakopoulos, Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction, Sixth Edition, Pearson, 2017.

Advanced Data Structure and Algorithms (CSH02, 4 Credits) : Advanced Data Structure and Algorithms is offered in the fourth semester. There are no prerequisites for the Advanced Data Structure and Algorithms course. Advanced Data Structure and Algorithms is an Honors course, so only Honors students can enroll for this course. Advanced Data Structure and Algorithms is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Algorithm Analysis and study of Heap Structures,   Advanced Tree Structures,   Geometric Structuring,   Polygon Structures and Linear Programming Models,   Database Querying and Path Planning. The reference books suggested in curriculum are G. Brassard and P.Bratley, Algorithmics: Theory and Practice, Prentice Hall of India, 2010, E.Horowitz, S.Sahni and Dinesh Mehta, Fundamentals of Data Structures in C++, Second Edition, Universities Press, 2007, Mark de Berg, Otfried Cheong, Marc Van Kreveld and Mark Overmars, Computational Geometry Algorithms and Applications, Third Edition, Springer-Verlag, 2008, S.Sahni, Data Structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++, Second Edition, Universities Press, 2005.

Advanced Software Design (CSH03, 4 Credits) : Advanced Software Design is offered in the fifth semester. There are no prerequisites for the Advanced Software Design course. Advanced Software Design is an Honors course, so only Honors students can enroll for this course. Advanced Software Design is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Units covered:  Decomposing the System ,   System Design Concepts,   Design and Description of Architectural Solutions,   Reusing Pattern Solutions,   Software Design Evaluation. The reference books suggested in curriculum are Hong Zhu, Software Design Methodology: From Principles to Architectural Styles, ButterworthHeinemann, 2005, Bernd Bruegge and Allen H. Dutoit, Object-Oriented Software Engineering Using UML, Patterns, and Java, Third Edition, Pearson, 2013, G. Zayaraz, Quantitative Approaches for Evaluating Software Architectures: Frameworks and Models”, VDM Verlag, 2010.

Advanced Security Concepts (CSH04, 4 Credits) :  Advanced Security Concepts is offered in the sixth semester. There are no prerequisites for the Advanced Security Concepts course. Advanced Security Concepts is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department. Advanced Security Concepts is an Honors course, so only Honors students can enroll for this course. Units covered:  Concepts on Network, Computer and Web Security,   Symmetric and Asymmetric Ciphers,   Authentication and Data Integrity,   Network and Internet Security,   The Real World Implementation. The reference books suggested in curriculum are William Stallings, Cryptography and Network Security Principles and Practices, Seventh Edition, Pearson Publication, 2017, Bruce Schneier, Applied Cryptography: Protocols, Algorithms and Source Code, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2015, Simson Garfinkel & Eugene H. Spafford, Web Security and Commerce, O’REILLY Publications, 2001, Charles PPfleeger, Security in Computing, Fifth Edition, Prentice-Hall International, 2015.

Deep Learning (CSH05, 4 Credits) : Deep Learning is offered in the seventh semester. There are no prerequisites for the Deep Learning course. Deep Learning is offered by the Computer Science and Engineering Department.  Deep Learning is an Honors course, so only Honors students can enroll for this course. Units covered:  Introduction to Artificial Neural Networks,   Introduction to Deep Learning,   Deep Learning Architectures,   Deep Learning Frameworks,   Deep Learning Applications. The reference books suggested in the curriculum are S. Rajasekaran and G. A. Vijayalakshmi Pai, Neural Networks, Fuzzy Logic, and Genetic Algorithms: Synthesis and Applications, Second Edition, PHI Learning Private Limited, 2017, Josh Patterson and Adam Gibson, Deep Learning: A Practitioner’s Approach, O’Reilly Media Inc, 2017, Rajiv Chopra, Deep Learning: A Practical Approach, Khanna Publishing, 2018, Ian Good fellow and Yoshua Bengio and Aaron Courville, Deep Learning, MIT Press, 2016.

Minor Courses: Data Structures and Algorithms(CSM01,4 credits),Principles of Operating System(CSM02,4 credits),Principles of Database Management(CSM03,4 credits),Internet Programming(CSM04,4 credits),Network Technology(CSM05,4 credits)

Data Structures and algorithms(CSM01,4 Credits): CS is offered in... semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS.. course. It is offered by the department of Computer Science and Engineering.  Units covered:  all about Notations and analyzing the space and time complexity of algorithms, covers about the linear data structure stacks,queues,lists, is about non-linear data structures trees and graphs,  is about the greedy algorithms and dynamic programming, speaks about backtracking and Branch and bound techniques.The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Ellis Horowitz and Sartaj Sahni, Fundamentals of Data Structures, Galgotia Book Source, Pvt. Ltd., 2004.”, “D. Samanta, Classic Data Structures, Second Edition, Prentice-Hall of India, Pvt. Ltd., India, 2012.”

Principles of Operating Systems(CSM02,4 credits): CS is offered in... semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS.. course. It is offered by the department of Computer Science and Engineering.  Units covered:  about operating systems and its introduction to different operating systems, focuses on the threads,process and scheduling algorithms,  covers on the deadlocks and process synchronization aspects, is all about memory management and concepts of virtual memory,  is about file processing.The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Abraham Silberschatz, Peter B. Galvin and Greg Gagne, Operating Systems Concepts, Ninth Edition, Wiley, 2012”, “William Stallings, Operating Systems: Internals and Design Principles, Ninth Edition, Prentice-Hall, 2018.”, “Andrew Tanenbaum, Modern Operating Systems, Third Edition, Prentice Hall, 2009”.

Principles of Database Management(CSM03,4 credits):There are no prerequisites for this course. It is offered by the department of Computer Science and Engineering. The first unit covers the basic concepts of DBMS such as er diagrams,schema,instances,cardinalities, covers on the relational database and its design,unit three focuses on SQL programming,  focuses on query processing and transactions,  deals with concepts of concurrency control and system architecture.The reference books suggested in the curriculum are “Abraham Silberschatz, Henry F. Korth and S.Sudarshan, Database System Concepts, Sixth Edition, McGraw-Hill International, Inc., 2011.”, “Elmasri and Navathe, Fundamentals of Database Systems, Seventh Edition, Addison-Wesley, 2012.”, “Fred R McFadden, Jeffery A. Hoffer and Mary B. Prescott, Modern Database Management, Addison Wesley, 2000. ”

Internet Programming(CSM04, 4 credits): CS is offered in... semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS.. course. It is offered by the department of Computer Science and Engineering. The first unit deals with concept of html and Dhtml and internet protocols,  covers about client side programming ,  focuses on server side programming and servlets its life cycle,  deals with PHP and XML,  is all about ajax and different types of web services.The reference books suggested in curriculum are Deitel and Goldberg, Internet and World Wide Web – How to Program, Fifth Edition, Pearson Education Asia, 2011, Uttam K.Roy, Web Technologies, First Edition, Oxford University Press, 2012, Eric Newcomer, Understanding Web Services: XML, WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI, Addison-Wesley, Platinum Edition, 2002.

Network Technology(CSM05, 4 credits) : CS is offered in... semester. There are no prerequisites for the CS.. course. It is offered by the department of Computer Science and Engineering. The first unit covers the fundamentals of networking and different types of protocol stacks,  is all about data communication and physical medium and different networks,  focuses on the data link layer and different types of access protocols,  deals with network and transport layer protocols,  covers on the topics of application layer and network security aspects.The reference books suggested in curriculum are Tanenbaum, A.S. and David J. Wetherall, Computer Networks, Fifth Edition, Prentice Hall, 2011, Larry L. Peterson and Bruce S. Davie, Computer Networks- A System Approach, Fifth Edition, Elsevier, 2012, Stallings, Data and Computer Communications, Tenth Edition, Prentice Hall Int. Ed., 2013, James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross, Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet, Third Edition, Pearson Education, 2006